# Objects, Functions, Types, and Pointers

An object is storage in which you can represent values. To be precise, an object is defined by the C Standard (ISO/IEC 9899:2018) as a “region of 14 Chapter 2 data storage in the execution environment, the contents of which can repre- sent values,” with the added note, “when referenced, an object can be inter- preted as having a particular type.” A variable is an example of an object. Variables have a declared type that tells you the kind of object its value represents. For example, an object with type int contains an integer value. The type is important because the collection of bits that represents one type of object will likely have a different value if interpreted as a different type of object. For example, the number 1 is represented in IEEE 754 (the IEEE Standard for Floating-Point Arithmetic) by the bit pattern 0x3f800000 (IEEE 754–2008). But if you were to interpret this same bit pattern as an integer, you’d get the value 1,065,353,216 instead of 1. Functions are not objects but do have types. A function type is char- acterized by both its return type as well as the number and types of its parameters. The C language also has pointers, which can be thought of as an address— a location in memory where an object or function is stored. A pointer type is derived from a function or object type called the referenced type. A pointer type derived from the referenced type T is called a pointer to T. Because objects and functions are different things, object pointers and function pointers are also different things, and should not be used inter- changeably. In the following section, you’ll write a simple program that attempts to swap the values of two variables to help you better understand objects, functions, pointers, and types.